README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <div>
    <img src=".github/logo-grad.svg" alt="OpenCommit logo"/>
    <h1 align="center">OpenCommit</h1>
    <h4 align="center">Follow the bird <a href="https://twitter.com/io_Y_oi"><img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/io_Y_oi?style=flat&label=io_Y_oi&logo=twitter&color=0bf&logoColor=fff" align="center"></a>
    </h4>
  </div>
	<h2>GPT CLI to auto-generate impressive commits in 1 second</h2>
	<p>Killing lame commits with AI 🤯🔫</p>
	<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/opencommit"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/opencommit" alt="Current version"></a>
</div>

---

<div align="center">
    <img src=".github/opencommit-example.png" alt="OpenCommit example"/>
</div>

All the commits in this repo are done with OpenCommit — look into [the commits](https://github.com/di-sukharev/opencommit/commit/eae7618d575ee8d2e9fff5de56da79d40c4bc5fc) to see how OpenCommit works. Emoji and long commit description text is configurable.

## Setup

1. Install OpenCommit globally to use in any repository:

   ```sh
   npm install -g opencommit
   ```

2. Get your API key from [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys). Make sure you add payment details, so API works.

3. Set the key to OpenCommit config:

   ```sh
   opencommit config set OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_api_key>
   ```

   Your api key is stored locally in `~/.opencommit` config file.

## Usage

You can call OpenCommit directly to generate a commit message for your staged changes:

```sh
git add <files...>
opencommit
```

You can also use the `oc` shortcut:

```sh
git add <files...>
oc
```

## Features

### Switch to GPT-4

By default OpenCommit uses GPT-3.5-turbo (ChatGPT).

You may switch to GPT-4 which performs better, but costs ~x15 times more 🤠

```sh
oc config set model=gpt-4
```

Make sure you do lowercase `gpt-4`.

### Preface commits with emoji 🤠

[GitMoji](https://gitmoji.dev/) convention is used.

To add emoji:

```sh
oc config set emoji=true
```

To remove emoji:

```sh
oc config set emoji=false
```

### Postface commits with descriptions of changes

To add descriptions:

```sh
oc config set description=true
```

To remove description:

```sh
oc config set description=false
```

### Internationalization support

To specify the language used to generate commit messages:

```sh
# de, German ,Deutsch
oc config set language=de
oc config set language=German
oc config set language=Deutsch

# fr, French, française
oc config set language=fr
oc config set language=French
oc config set language=française
```

The default language set is **English**  
All available languages are currently listed in the [i18n](https://github.com/di-sukharev/opencommit/tree/master/src/i18n) folder

### Push to git

Pushing to git is on by default but if you would like to turn it off just use:
```sh
oc config set gitpush=false
```

### Git flags

The `opencommit` or `oc` commands can be used in place of the `git commit -m "${generatedMessage}"` command. This means that any regular flags that are used with the `git commit` command will also be applied when using `opencommit` or `oc`.

```sh
oc --no-verify
```

is translated to :

```sh
git commit -m "${generatedMessage}" --no-verify
```

### Ignore files

You can ignore files from submission to OpenAI by creating a `.opencommitignore` file. For example:

```ignorelang
path/to/large-asset.zip
**/*.jpg
```

This is useful for preventing opencommit from uploading artifacts and large files.

By default, opencommit ignores files matching: `*-lock.*` and `*.lock`

## Git hook

You can set OpenCommit as Git [`prepare-commit-msg`](https://git-scm.com/docs/githooks#_prepare_commit_msg) hook. Hook integrates with you IDE Source Control and allows you edit the message before commit.

To set the hook:

```sh
oc hook set
```

To unset the hook:

```sh
oc hook unset
```

To use the hook:

```sh
git add <files...>
git commit
```

Or follow the process of your IDE Source Control feature, when it calls `git commit` command — OpenCommit will integrate into the flow.

## Payments

You pay for your own requests to OpenAI API. OpenCommit uses ChatGPT (3.5-turbo) official model, that is ~15x times cheaper than GPT-4.

Commit message:

✨ feat(api.ts): add support for Azure OpenAI API
    The Azure OpenAI API is now supported in addition to the OpenAI API. The API type can be specified in the configuration file using the OPENAI_API_TYPE key. If the key is not specified, the default value is 'openai'. The AzureOpenAIApi class is added to the utils folder to handle the Azure OpenAI API calls. The createChatCompletion method is implemented in the AzureOpenAIApi class to handle the chat completion requests. The method is called in the generateCommitMessage method in the OpenAi class if the apiType is set to 'azure'.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <div>
    <img src=".github/logo-grad.svg" alt="OpenCommit logo"/>
    <h1 align="center">OpenCommit</h1>
    <h4 align="center">Follow the bird <a href="https://twitter.com/io_Y_oi"><img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/io_Y_oi?style=flat&label=io_Y_oi&logo=twitter&color=0bf&logoColor=fff" align="center"></a>
    </h4>
  </div>
	<h2>GPT CLI to auto-generate impressive commits in 1 second</h2>
	<p>Killing lame commits with AI 🤯🔫</p>
	<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/opencommit"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/opencommit" alt="Current version"></a>
</div>

---

<div align="center">
    <img src=".github/opencommit-example.png" alt="OpenCommit example"/>
</div>

All the commits in this repo are done with OpenCommit — look into [the commits](https://github.com/di-sukharev/opencommit/commit/eae7618d575ee8d2e9fff5de56da79d40c4bc5fc) to see how OpenCommit works. Emoji and long commit description text is configurable.

## Setup

1. Install OpenCommit globally to use in any repository:

   ```sh
   npm install -g opencommit
   ```

2. Get your API key from [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys). Make sure you add payment details, so API works.

3. Set the key to OpenCommit config:

   ```sh
   opencommit config set OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_api_key>
   ```

   Your api key is stored locally in `~/.opencommit` config file.

## Usage

You can call OpenCommit directly to generate a commit message for your staged changes:

```sh
git add <files...>
opencommit
```

You can also use the `oc` shortcut:

```sh
git add <files...>
oc
```

## Features

### Switch to Azure OpenAI

By default OpenCommit uses [OpenAI](https://openai.com).

You could switch to [Azure OpenAI Service](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cognitive-services/openai/)🚀

```sh
opencommit config set OPENAI_API_TYPE=azure
```

Of course need to set 'OPENAI_API_KEY'. And also need to set the
'OPENAI_BASE_PATH' for the endpoint and set the deployment name to
'model'.

### Switch to GPT-4

By default OpenCommit uses GPT-3.5-turbo (ChatGPT).

You may switch to GPT-4 which performs better, but costs ~x15 times more 🤠

```sh
oc config set model=gpt-4
```

Make sure you do lowercase `gpt-4`.

### Preface commits with emoji 🤠

[GitMoji](https://gitmoji.dev/) convention is used.

To add emoji:

```sh
oc config set emoji=true
```

To remove emoji:

```sh
oc config set emoji=false
```

### Postface commits with descriptions of changes

To add descriptions:

```sh
oc config set description=true
```

To remove description:

```sh
oc config set description=false
```

### Internationalization support

To specify the language used to generate commit messages:

```sh
# de, German ,Deutsch
oc config set language=de
oc config set language=German
oc config set language=Deutsch

# fr, French, française
oc config set language=fr
oc config set language=French
oc config set language=française
```

The default language set is **English**  
All available languages are currently listed in the [i18n](https://github.com/di-sukharev/opencommit/tree/master/src/i18n) folder

### Push to git

Pushing to git is on by default but if you would like to turn it off just use:
```sh
oc config set gitpush=false
```

### Git flags

The `opencommit` or `oc` commands can be used in place of the `git commit -m "${generatedMessage}"` command. This means that any regular flags that are used with the `git commit` command will also be applied when using `opencommit` or `oc`.

```sh
oc --no-verify
```

is translated to :

```sh
git commit -m "${generatedMessage}" --no-verify
```

### Ignore files

You can ignore files from submission to OpenAI by creating a `.opencommitignore` file. For example:

```ignorelang
path/to/large-asset.zip
**/*.jpg
```

This is useful for preventing opencommit from uploading artifacts and large files.

By default, opencommit ignores files matching: `*-lock.*` and `*.lock`

## Git hook

You can set OpenCommit as Git [`prepare-commit-msg`](https://git-scm.com/docs/githooks#_prepare_commit_msg) hook. Hook integrates with you IDE Source Control and allows you edit the message before commit.

To set the hook:

```sh
oc hook set
```

To unset the hook:

```sh
oc hook unset
```

To use the hook:

```sh
git add <files...>
git commit
```

Or follow the process of your IDE Source Control feature, when it calls `git commit` command — OpenCommit will integrate into the flow.

## Payments

You pay for your own requests to OpenAI API. OpenCommit uses ChatGPT (3.5-turbo) official model, that is ~15x times cheaper than GPT-4.
